#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass revtex4-1
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Non-local correlations in strongly correlated quantum systems
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A plethora of intringuing phenoma such as the Mott transition and quantum
 criticality emerge in strongly correlated electronic systems.
 However, the theoretical description and understanding of such systems
 is challenging since most of these effects can not be described through
 a perturbation theory in terms of the Coulomb interaction or a standard
 mean-field theory.
 A big step foward was achieved with the formulation of the dynamical mean-field
 theory (DMFT) [1], a nonperturbative approach, which is a mean-field theory
 in spatial coordinates but fully accounts local quantum fluctuations.
 Within DMFT perspective we are able to describe, for example, the Mott
 transition at zero temperature and its respective crossover character at
 finite ones.
 Besides the great success of DMFT, going beyond it becomes necessary since
 some fascinating phenoma like quantum criticality originates from non-local
 correlations, which are by construction beyond DMFT.
 A couple of methods to include non-local correlations into the description
 of strongly correlated systems were proposed over the years [].
 In this research proposal, we are going to focus into the so-called dynamical
 vertex approximation (D
\begin_inset Formula $\Gamma$
\end_inset

A), a diagrammatic extension of DMFT.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In a nutshell, DMFT assumes that the lattice self-energy, also called one
 particle irreducible vertex, is purely local.
 This approach is non-perturbative since all the local Feynman diagrams
 are take into account.
 The very ideia of the diagrammatic extensions is to extend the locality
 of the one particle irreducible vertex to the next level, i.e., the two particle
 level.
 In particular, in D
\begin_inset Formula $\Gamma$
\end_inset

A approach, the so-called fully irreducible two particle vertex in an specific
 channel is assumed to be purely local, and from this assumption we are
 able to systematically include non-local effects on top of DMFT solutions.
 Within D
\begin_inset Formula $\Gamma$
\end_inset

A, we treat the system in the thermodynamic limit which allow us to have
 a full resolution of the momentum space.
 For two-dimensional systems, the 
\begin_inset Formula $\lambda$
\end_inset

-correction formulation guarantees the fulfillment of the Mermin-Wagner
 theorem, a key ingridient to the study of the role of fluctuations of emerging
 zero temperature long range orders at finite temperatures.
 The bottleneck of this approach lies on the fact that the leading stability
 needs to be known a priori, what does not allow us to explore the competition
 between different possible leading stabilities in the system.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the next sections we discuss the two main systems we are going to study
 through the D
\begin_inset Formula $\Gamma$
\end_inset

A approach.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Quantum criticality in triangular lattice systems
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Experimental studies on several organic charge transfer salts [] suggest
 that the structure of these compounds is well described by independent
 two-dimensional layers with nearly isotropic triangular lattice structure,
 and exhibit strong electronic correlations.
 In addition, some experiments show no sign of spin ordering at low temperatures
, an indicative that these compounds are promising candidates to host a
 spin liquid ground state [].
 In the theoretical perspective, these organic compounds seem also to be
 well described by a single band Hubbard model [], what makes the study
 of this model in a triangular lattice fundamental to our understanding
 of the physics of these compounds.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the triangular lattice Hubbard model, the interplay between strong correlatio
ns and geometric frustration is the route to a rich phenomenology.
 At zero temperature, the study of this system at half-filled case using
 infinite-system density matrix renormalization group (iDMRG) showed that
 as a function of the on-site Coulomb repulsion, a metal-insulator transition
 takes place, being followed by the emergence of an intriguing insulating
 state without time-reversal symmetry at intermediate interaction strength,
 before the system becomes a magnetic insulator at strong interaction regime[].
 At finite temperature, the study of the same system [] combining the minimally
 entangled thermally typical states (METTS) [], a wave function based method,
 with Green's function based methods like connected-determinant diagrammatic
 Monte Carlo (DiagMC) and cellular dynamical mean-field theory (CDMFT),
 showed also the existence of metal-insulator crossover, followed by the
 enhancement of chiral correlations being consistent with a chiral spin
 liquid ground state as well as spin correlations of a non-coplanar tetrahedral
 order at intermediate coupling regime.
 At strong coupling regime, the spin correlations corresponding to the classical
 coplanar Neel order predicted for the Heisenberg model in the triangular
 lattice at zero temperature becomes dominant in the system.
 Here is important to emphasize that the prediction of magnetism at finite
 temperature in the two-dimensional system by METTS is a consequence of
 the finite size system character of this technique.
 As already mentioned before, for a consistent description of the real physical
 system, no magnetic order must be observed at finite temperatures.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The previous results discussed above show that the triangular lattice Hubbard
 model has a well-known magnetic leading stability as a function of the
 on-site Coulomb interaction at zero temperature, which is the key ingridient
 that motivates us to study the finite temperature phase diagram of this
 model through the D
\begin_inset Formula $\text{\ensuremath{\Gamma}}A$
\end_inset

 technique.
 Firstly, as already pointed out before, D
\begin_inset Formula $\text{\ensuremath{\Gamma}}$
\end_inset

A guarantees the absence of long range order in two-dimensional sytems,
 and secondly, it also allows us to systematically incorporate non-local
 electronic correlations into the description of the system in the thermodynamic
al limit.
 These two feautures of D
\begin_inset Formula $\Gamma$
\end_inset

A indicate that it is a powerful technique to explore the effects of the
 zero temperature magnetic critical point in this model at finite temperatures,
 throught the inspection of the role of the spin fluctuations due to this
 critical point to thermodynamical quantities.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the first part of this project, we are going to study the phase diagram
 of the fully frustrated triangular lattice Hubbard model in the half-filled
 case in the presence of the non-local correlations through the D
\begin_inset Formula $\text{\ensuremath{\Gamma}}$
\end_inset

A technique.
 Firstly, we aim to determine how the Mott crossover in the model predicted
 by DMFT is affected by the effect of the non-local correlations through
 the analyzis of the behavior of the quasi-particle properties, the potential
 and kinectic energy and also the low-frquency behavior of the local self-energy.
 Secondly, we are going to study the criticality of the model through the
 analyzis of the maximum of the lattice susceptibility as function of the
 temperature and the on-site Coulomb repulsion, and extract the behavior
 of the magnetic correlation length as function of the same parameters.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Once we determine the phase diagram of the fully frustrated triangular lattice
 Hubbard model in the half-filled case, we aim to extend our analyzis to
 the electron and hole dopped case, in order to understand how the emergence
 of the non-local correlation is affected by the dopping of the system,
 and how the previous determined critical regimes are influenced by this
 control parameter.
 In addition, we will analyze the emergence of new possible critial regimes
 in this model under dopping.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With the phase diagram of the model respecting the Mermin-Wagner theorem
 well-stablished, at least in the D
\begin_inset Formula $\text{\ensuremath{\Gamma}}A$
\end_inset

perspective, we will focus in the analyzis of the phase diagram for realistic
 materials.
 In this part of the project we will study a non-fully frustrated triangular
 lattice Hubbard model at half-filled and electrons and hole doped cases,
 aiming to describe some experimentally features observed for some organic
 charge transfer salts.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The role of spin fluctuation in the Fermi liquid state of Sr
\begin_inset Formula $_{2}$
\end_inset

RuO
\begin_inset Formula $_{4}$
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The layered perovskite Sr
\begin_inset Formula $_{2}$
\end_inset

RuO
\begin_inset Formula $_{4}$
\end_inset

 is an important model system for strongly correlated systems.
 In particular, the normal state of Sr
\begin_inset Formula $_{2}$
\end_inset

RuO
\begin_inset Formula $_{4}$
\end_inset

 has been attracted much interest since it is one of the cleanest oxides
 Fermi liquids [].
 In this material, the Fermi surface can be resolved to great precision
 by ARPES experiments and described accurately through DMFT calculations
 [], elucidating that a local approach of the correlations describes resonably
 the physics of this compound.
 However, neutron scattering [] and nuclear magnetic resonance [] experiments
 show that strong magnetic fluctuations are present in the low-temperature
 Fermi-liquid state.
 In this scenario, it is natural to expect a strong momentum dependence
 of the self-energy due to these spin fluctuations, contradicting the scenario
 of purely local correlations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this project we aim to investigate the puzzling dichotomy in Sr
\begin_inset Formula $_{2}$
\end_inset

RuO
\begin_inset Formula $_{4}$
\end_inset

, namely the coexistence of strong spin fluctuations present in the Fermi
 liquid phase of this material and the high degree of locality of its one-partic
le self-energy.
 To sutdy this problem we are going to apply a cutting-edge diagrammatic
 extension of DMFT, the (ab-initio) dynamical vertex approximation (Abinitio-D
\begin_inset Formula $\Gamma$
\end_inset

A) [] for this system.
 The Abinitio-D
\begin_inset Formula $\Gamma$
\end_inset

A technique allows us to generate all local DMFT correlations and all nonlocal
 GW contributions but also nonlocal correlations beyond.
 During the analysis of the system through Abinitio-D
\begin_inset Formula $\Gamma$
\end_inset

A, we intend to implement a modification to its original formulation, by
 imposing additional sum rules (Moriya corrections) that allow us to observe
 the tendency of awakening of ordering due to the presence of the nonlocal
 correlations, and in the case of two-dimensions, a completely quench of
 long range orders in accordance to the Mermin-Wagner theorem.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
